
    ---
    layout: post
    title: "Domestic Assistants"
    date: 2007-02-19
    categories: [delhiblog2007]
    ---

    ![My DA
Krishna](http://lh5.google.com/image/soham.g.sen/RcnDlYe60NI/AAAAAAAAAKo/Hd-
AT_RLsbY/s288/DSCN2493.JPG)

Two months ago, back in Arlington my morning routine before heading to work
would roughly resemble my routine now: wake up late after hitting the snooze
button a few times too many, go for a run/workout (if there is enough time),
shower, meditate, grab some breakfast, and jump in the car. Yet here, there
are some subtle but unmistakable differences to the generally similar routine.
After showering, when I look in my closet (not so much the walk in kind, more
like a cupboard) I find that my shirts are hanging there, washed and ironed.
Opening a drawer I find that my t-shirts and pants are in the same condition.
I pull out what I'm going to wear for the day, get changed and head out of my
room. On the dining room I typically find a hot breakfast waiting for me.
Sometimes an omelet, other times fruit and almost always toast along with milk
or coffee. Next to it there is a there is a thermally insulated lunch box for
me to take to work; it also has a hot meal inside: rotis or rice, some curry
or mixed vegetable, dal, and so on. Upon finishing my breakfast, I head
downstairs for work as I would normally except here I don't drive: I hop into
an auto rickshaw, and I am driven the the distance of some 5 to 8 km to my
office. The first thing I do at the office is hand my lunch box off; later
right at lunch, the food therein reappears served on a plate alongside the
necessary utensils. The subtle difference then, between now and before, is the
small group of people who seem to be dedicated to doing things for me; things
that I was previously perfectly capable of doing myself (except for maybe
cooking!). For any middle class American, the pervasive presence of servants -
"domestic/office assistants" (DA/OA) as I like to call them - will come as
something of a surprise. Everywhere you go, there is somebody there who will
answer to your bekon call. Want some coffee? Coming right up. Need to get some
laundry done? Would you like more or less starch? Just mention it to the DA
before head off to work. Want chicken for dinner? Again just let her know.
Don't feel like doing the dishes? Don't worry about it, just leave them in the
sink; she'll wash them in the morning. Does your floor need a sweep or your
bathroom need some elbow grease?... Are you getting the picture? (The same at
the office, there are peons. So if you need a cup of tea after lunch or need
something photocopied? Do you need somebody to run to the market and get you a
coke or new set of pens?..) I find that the larger the house or the office,
the more DAs or OAs there are, and almost all middle/upper middle class
families have one or more. Universally, we Americans raised on the virtues or
self sufficiency recoil in horror at the thought of having somebody do things
for us. After all, I still have hands and legs, and there is no reason for
somebody else to do these things. Yet, these chores are unpleasant.. and help
sure is cheap. My DA, Krishna, is there 8 or 9 AM to 7 PM every day for the
prevailing market wage of Rs 3000 ($68) a month. So that's just over $20 bucks
split between the three roommates. $20 to avoid dishes, laundry, clearing,
ironing, groceries, etc etc. Wouldn't you do it? It's simple comparative
advantage I'm told: outsource the menial work so that you have more time for
that you get paid to do; this is much more efficient use of resources. There
is also the argument, probably accurate, that these people need jobs too.
India has a vast population of unskilled labor, often people who have left
their subsistence farms for the city. Providing employment to them given them
a way of earning a wage to support their own families. Many families help
children of DAs to go to school or even the DAs how to read or learn other
skills. Both trains of logic prevail very quickly; I've noticed that people
take little time to get over their discomfort at ordering people around and
soon become quite good at it. But discomfiting it remains -- at least for me.
For one thing there is the lack of privacy. You are never really left alone
anywhere. There is someone who is going through your things all the time. I
can never find anything because, where ever I put something on the table that
morning has been moved by the time I get home at night. No doubt my table is
as a result neater, but I have to make it messy again rummaging for my lost
item! Much worse though is what I perceive as the inevitable sense of
inequality that soon arises between DA and regular Joe; striking again at
another core value I (and I think all Americans) hold dear: that all are
created equal. I've noticed that until people need their DAs to do something,
it's like they aren't there at all. When you go over to somebody's house, they
introduce you to everyone in the room except the DA. So there you are sitting
and somebody random hands you some tea. Typically, I've noticed that people
talk to their DAs like they are stupid step children (think Cinderella). It's
not, "Hi DA, can you please make me X tonight?" It's like "Hey DA, make X
tonight," in the form of an order. I've even heard something to the effect of,
"hey DA, you idiot, you made Y last night and it tasted shitty. Who taught you
to cook anyway? Tonight make X, and it'd better be good, or I'm getting
somebody else." I must note here that this is not universally the case; for
many the live-in DA is treated like a member of the family. Though I must say
that within my limited experience here in Delhi, I think the second example is
most prevalent. Even if they aren't treated poorly or as less equal, I can't
help but wonder how they feel working for us because while they are constantly
in our midst their lives are not the same as ours. They spend most of their
time in a house they are unlikely to ever be able to afford, taking care of
children who are going to be going to better schools and be presented with
better opportunities than their own children. I wonder if they sit and say
life just isn't fair. I wouldn't blame them if they did. For example, I've
been traveling quite a bit since I got here, and one of the places I went to
was Calcutta as I mentioned is earlier entries. Well, I didn't even think
about the cost of the ticket -- I think round trip it was like four thousand
rupees on a train going in business or first class (probably six thousand by
air), but I learned recently that my DA has been saving for like four months
so that she could get the money together to send her daughter to Calcutta in a
few months on the train. I'm pretty sure her daughter isn't going to be
traveling first class, so she must be trying to save like Rs. 2000 (less than
$50). Or the time a few weeks ago when we threw a housewarming party which she
did the bulk of the cooking/preparing for, but of course she didn't attend the
actual party. (Nor did we tell her that were spent some $200 on one night -
pretty average I think for a medium sized party with food and alcohol - which
is her salary for three months.) Again, I can't imagine how I'd feel on the
other side looking in, I just keep wondering what they must think? I have no
answers, and I don't know whether I should feel as guilty as I do. I have to
think about that more, but I've begun to vent now, so let me stop and move on.
Finally, there is the utter dependence and lethargy. When you start getting it
into your head that you don't have to a whole lot of stuff, you begin to
wonder what else you can get away without doing. Whenever you do feel like you
need to do something, there is this overwhelming lethargy, "do I really have
to do this myself, or can I have DA do it for me?" Then comes a day, such as
when our DA got sick last week and there is absolute pandemonium in the house.
There's no food, we don't know where anything is in the kitchen to make
ourselves stuff. Nobody gets their coffee in the morning... general disaster.
Anyway, it's been almost a month an a half since I've been here, and I still
can't bring myself to order my DA to clean my bathroom, etc. I just secretly
clean it myself when she's not around. I do my bed too so she won't have to.
I've found even here there though that there is something of a catch 22
because even if I try to clean my dishes myself for example, Krisha interprets
this as meaning that she does her job poorly. So even if I did want to do my
own things, I can't without offending her; there is no real middle ground.
I've adjusted to making awkward requests encapsulated in "pleases" and "thank
yous" which I'm assured are unnecessary ("after all she works for me, and
doing what I say is her job"). I'm sure it's a slippery slope from polite
requests to rude orders, but as I slowly slip into the comfortable DA cocoon
of laziness, the only thing that keeps me from succumbing is the thought of
how hard it's going to be for me to adjust when I go back to being a broke
graduate student in the fall. With that thought in mind, I locate begin
searching for where the surface cleaner and sponge are -- my sink needs some
elbow grease.

