
    ---
    layout: post
    title: "Life in Delhi Lesson II: Thou shalt have no personal space"
    date: 2007-03-14
    categories: [delhiblog2007]
    ---

    ![People, people everywhere](http://lh6.google.com/image/soham.g.sen/RffupVaxn
cI/AAAAAAAAAmk/vX9OA5hAZ_U/s400/DSCN2585.JPG)

**People People Everywhere**

I'm picking up where I left of on my Lessons from Life in Delhi series again
with Lesson 2. Here's [the first
installment](http://senuniversitas.org//?p=16) in case you're interested. I
think that my intuitive sense of personal space is rather average for an
American -- correct me if I'm wrong. At minimum I would describe it as a one
foot halo that extends around my body; ideally it would be two feet. One thing
you realize right away from walking on the street or standing in a line here
in Delhi is that your personal space in public only extends to your skin. Even
then, only if you're lucky. People have no problem bumping into you as they
pass. Cars and motor cycles happily brush you as they pass. And lines, ahem
"ques," are the worst: people behind you will literally spoon you. Apparently,
for women I am told that the situation could be better or worse: some extend a
bit more space, others crowd even closer for reasons I'll leave you to
imagine. It's not just your body either. It's everything. I've [discussed the
traffic here before](http://senuniversitas.org//?p=15) where there is really
no concept of lanes and people don't have the same sense of "safe driving
distance" that we're taught to internalize in Driver's Ed class. Then there is
how nobody thinks to knock when they come into your room or office. A stranger
feels no compunction about borrowing your Aquafina bottle to take a swig of
your water. People will block off entire streets completely to build a
temporary wedding reception hall. So what's the deal? Should I just conclude
that people are just plain more rude here? Well, I decided that it must be a
cultural difference, and to try to get to the bottom of it I thought I'd just
ask around. I still don't have a definitive answer or anything but this is
what I found... My boss at Ashoka suggested that there is a lot less space to
begin with here than in the US, so a different cultural attitude towards space
has naturally developed. Well that sounded innocuous enough, so I mined
wikipedia for a while. India has about a third of the land mass (1.2M sq.mi.)
of the US (3.7M sq.mi.) but nearly four times as many people: 300 M people in
the US and 1.1 B in India. This means that roughly for the whole country the
density is nearly twelve times that of the US. Taking a closer look at
specific city numbers (after all population density varies quite a bit from
place to place), the population density of Washington DC is about 3,481 people
per square km (ppsk); in Delhi it's 9294 ppsk or really about three times as
much. Comparatively Calcutta has nearly 25,000 ppsk; its 27,000 ppsk in
Bombay. I recently went to Calcutta and found that well the behavior was about
the same as what I'd observed in Delhi even though Calcutta is nearly three
times as dense as Delhi. I thought then that maybe it's not a linear
relationship, that maybe there is just a point where there is just so little
space that having even less doesn't matter. In talking to some of my cousins
about this though, I began to get an understanding of this "cultural attitude
towards space" my boss had alluded to. For one thing people just don't grow up
with a whole lot of space here. In the large extended family homes, it's very
common for two or three children (or more) to share a small room while growing
up as opposed to the very standard single person single room concept that we
(or at least I) grew up with. For those less fortunate, often there is one
single hut or that that is shared by all -- there isn't even a demarcation for
kitchen or living room; think small studio apt in Manhattan. And as such, my
cousins explained, people learn quickly to share everything: toys, water,
food, clothes etc. You also develop a healthy dose of patience (more on this
in Lesson III); you learn to sleep while your roommate is sharing or while
people are having conversations. In essence you learn to live in a world
without personal space at all. Finally, there is just more touching in this
society. It's kind of like Latin America. I can't explain this aspect at all.
I'm sure there must be explanations having to do with America's Puritan
history or something, but unlike Latin America, most of the touching I've
noticed here (in public anyway) occurs between people of the same gender. It's
rare to see heterosexual couples displaying much public affection, but two or
three guys will walk hand in hand down the street. Or a bunch of girls will
watch an outdoor concert with their heads on each other's laps, etc. In the
west we'd just assume that they were gay and not think much else about it.
Here though I think the explanation is a bit more complex. Again I have no
scientific explanation for you, but I think it probably has to do with the
lack of space thing I mentioned earlier and also do with the fact that there
is no dating culture and until marriage there is little society approved
interaction between the sexes resulting in the behavior I've noticed. I don't
know if that explains the entire lack of personal space phenomenon that I've
been observing, but maybe it sheds some light. I'd be curious to compare the
situation here with crowded westernized cities like New York or Tokyo so if
you have any thoughts leave me a comment.

