
    ---
    layout: post
    title: "Delhi Lessons Part I: The Kitna Hoga Tango"
    date: 2007-02-28
    categories: [delhiblog2007]
    ---

    I've now written in some details about much of the major aspects of my life
here: the neighborhood in which I live, my flat, my work, the "domestic
assistants," and life I see on the streets. These are the broad strokes that I
wanted to paint before I jumped into writing about the particulars of
individual days and experiences. Yet somehow I think still I have yet to
convey some sense of what it is like to live here. I started off in the first
entry saying that this would be difficult to do, and perhaps the only way to
transmit that is through the sum of all of my blog entries. Still, I thought
I'd describe three from among the many lessons I've learned about living here
and maybe together they will get at the subtle ways that life here differs a
great deal from the one that you and I are used to. Lesson 1: Thou shalt
haggle for everything, all the time -- The Kitna Hoga Tango I'll pick an
example leaving off from my previous topic about the streets and getting
around. Every morning before I get into my auto rickshaw to go to work, there
is a little tango that the driver and I have learned to dance around what the
price of that ride should be. Even Indians from other cities might ask "why
not just go by the fare meter." Well my friends, each and every single taxi
and auto rickshaw does indeed have a meter. However, unlike those in the
taxis, the ones in the rickshaw are all invariably "broken." And so we do the
"kitna hoga" (how much) tango. Every driver that is any good at his job has
learned through many years of experience how to read people -- or more
specifically he has learned to read how inelastic a person's demand curve for
an auto ride is. From my limited seven week experience, I think there are
three factors this scraggly prince of the street uses: rich or poor, local or
not local, and most importantly good haggler or bad. The price you'll pay for
depends on all three factors, but as with almost any shopping in India it's
your patient ability to handle factor three that matters. When I first got
here, I was still rocking my black woolen coat and my Hindi was atrocious. And
then, as now, I had the classic American distaste for haggling. What is this
haggling I thought? Can you imagine bargaining for the price of shampoo with
your WalMart checkout guy? Also, as with most newcomers I was still living on
the dollar my first few weeks. That is to say that I would convert everything
from rupees to dollars whenever I would pay for something. This is a
treacherous practice because when you do that nothing seems like it costs
anything. Even when I learned that by the meter my ride to work should be Rs.
40 instead of the Rs. 60 or 70 that I was paying, I figured what the hell,
we're talking $1.60 instead of $1. But like those $1 iTunes songs, it all adds
up if you consider the fact that I take the auto to work and back home every
day of the week. So over a month we're talking $70 instead of $40. A week or
two later, it occurred to me that I was no longer earning a salary in any
currency and so I began to wizen up. Step one: I got rid of the woolen coat
and started to wear an old windbreaker. Then, I began to learn the routes to
go to work and simultaneously I mastered the "hindi phrases for getting
around" booklet. My fare almost immediately went down to around 45 to 50 /-
per ride. But, still there was the haggling. The trick here is to learn that
your demand curve should be highly elastic. Why? Because there are literally
hundreds of autos. If one guy quotes you even 5/- more than he should you give
him the disgusted, angry look (more on this later) and ask the guy in the auto
behind him. I call this "the walk away" maneuver. This way you spark
competition and you the consumer can only win. Soon, a full out price war is
effect and two or three auto guys are shouting ever increasingly lower fares
until you get to that magical fare that is the floor! I must admit that I have
yet to master this art like one of my roommates. She'll do the walk away
maneuver as many times as it takes. I for one am lazy. Yes it's true. And I
don't like haggling as I've said. Finally I fall prey to the insidious idea
that we're talking about ten rupees at this point at most or less than a
quarter. At the end of the day, salary or not, I can help but think that the
scraggly prince of the auto probably needs that quarter much more than I do.

