
    ---
    layout: post
    title: "Location, Location, Location"
    date: 2007-02-09
    categories: [delhiblog2007]
    ---

    So I, apparently, don't know the first thing about blogging. Instead of
writing lengthy posts at equally lengthy intervals as I've been doing, it's
more advisable to write in short bits but at frequent intervals. Well, I'm not
sure why the latter is superior to the former, but I'll give it a try. Instead
of writing about my living situation here in Delhi all at once, today I'll
just write about where I live leaving "how I live" for next time. ![CR Park in
Delhi](http://senuniversitas.org/publicblog/wp-
content/uploads/2007/02/googlemap_delhi_web.jpg)First of all, way to go Google
Maps for finally mapping Delhi. In the map above of the city (the picture
isn't that good because I shrunk it, but here is [a link to the real deal](htt
p://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&q=New+Delhi,+Delhi,+India&sll=28.63769,77.2
05824&sspn=0.144334,0.32135&ie=UTF8&z=12&ll=28.637568,77.205734&spn=0.144334,0
.43396&om=1)), the second arrow towards the bottom indicates where I live:
Chittaranjan Park in South Delhi called CR Park in short. I was told that
south Delhi was the place to be before I moved here, and when I had an
opportunity to move in with a friend of a friend, I took my room in a three
bedroom flat immediately. Let me digress for a minute to make note of how
addresses are done in Delhi. In the US where addresses are done by street, ie
you live on house number V, on W Street in City X, State Y and Zip Z. Well,
here instead of street you do it by neighborhood and block number. To be
honest, I have no idea what street I live on, but I have house number 767 on D
block of CR Park. This makes it rather interesting to find places in Delhi
because it's not at all uncommon for Block A to be next to Block K or to have
another Block A next to the first one because the second belongs to an
adjacent neighborhood. Somehow the taxi drivers know what's going on and I
miraculously manage to get places 95% of the time. Ok, so back to the
neighborhood. CR park in a coincidence of coincidences is literally like a
little Calcutta; it's got Bengalis everywhere. Escape Calcutta I did, but not
Bengalis. And for me, even though I'm Bengali also, it was totally
coincidental that I ended up here because as I said I just took a room through
a friend. Neither of my roommates are Bengali either, so go figure. In some
version of Bengali heaven I live on the second floor of the building which
houses a sweet shop on the first floor! Bengalis are notorious for their love
of rasogollas and I can get one any time I want. To keeping in form with my
poor level of Bengali-ness I don't really prefer those sweets (I don't really
like fish much either -- I know, I'm a failure at being Bengali)... i do love
Kathi Rolls which are kabobs on stick (Kathi is stick in Bengali) though I'm
told that every thing in CR park is a pale imitation of Calcutta. Across the
street from me there is a market and a park where I used to go running until I
discovered a much nicer park with manicured lawns and night lights in the
adjacent Block I. There are two prominent features of CR park, one is the
large Kali Mandir (temple) with a huge beautiful garden in front, and second
the Delhi Police Investigation Unit which is also a rather large building, but
significantly less beautiful. Let me leave you with a picture of the Mandir
(yeah i need to take a better picture sometime during the day next time...)

![Kali Mandir CR Park](http://senuniversitas.org/publicblog/wp-
content/uploads/2007/02/dscn2485.JPG)

