
    ---
    layout: post
    title: ""My Cave""
    date: 2007-02-12
    categories: [delhiblog2007]
    ---

    I must admit that I had little idea about what sort of living accommodations I
might find; I essentially came prepared for war. I've wrote previously about
my neighborhood, and how it is in the post part of the city in South Delhi's
CR Park, but on my way to move into the apartment (aka "the flat") I found
myself generally unimpressed. On that day, my third in the country, I hadn't
seen enough of India or the city to appreciate the good areas from the areas
that are not. I saw that, like every other place, there were people everywhere
on the streets; there was a loud din from the chaotic traffic; there were
random foul odors emanating from a nearby dumpster; there was litter - here,
there, everywhere; there was a no discernible order to how the neighborhood
was arranged; there was was a haphazard gathering of people selling various
wares in front of the place; and there was a sweet store next to the narrow
gated entrance to my new home. I failed to see then, that I had a convenient
market across the street not a haphazard gathering of people; that I also
overlooked a park; that it's actually really awesome to have a sweet shop
downstairs, that is known neighborhood wide for its authentic Calcutta
rosogollas; that the chaotic traffic meant that I would have little trouble
hailing a ride to work in the mornings; or that I had a very nice temple a
short walk from the flat. I also of course, hadn't seen the inside. One of my
roommates is something of a interior designer it turns out, and I was
pleasantly surprised that morning, to see that my living room is furnished
with handmade furniture atop Rajasthani rugs, beautiful curtains, colorful
Indian paintings hanging on the walls, and various artifacts from around India
by way of decorations. So this then is the barren cave in which I am barely
hanging on to dear life far away from the warm embrace of home in America.

![Living Room 1](http://lh6.google.com/image/soham.g.sen/RdCaeHGdf1I/AAAAAAAAA
Nk/AaRtvj1PV6s/s288/DSCN2545.JPG)

![Living Room 2](http://lh6.google.com/image/soham.g.sen/RdCaqHGdf2I/AAAAAAAAA
Ns/8XJeSgm0kqA/s288/DSCN2546.JPG)

I had no plans to really expend money on furnishing my own room for the short
six months I will be here, but for the sake of keeping up appearances in such
a nice looking place, I did about the bare acceptable minimum. Lacking the
female touch no doubt, but I think it will suffice. (I should note that "my
cave" comes with my own bathroom.)

![My Room 1](http://lh3.google.com/image/soham.g.sen/RcnKM4e60bI/AAAAAAAAANY/D
vTQCK6qNcI/s288/DSCN2481.JPG)

![My Room 2](http://lh3.google.com/image/soham.g.sen/RdCaYXGdf0I/AAAAAAAAANc/9
WwzjIEOrnE/s288/DSCN2543.JPG)

I don't suppose a description of the home itself can be complete without
mentioning the inhabitants, so here are the roommates. Ayesha on the left and
Ranu ("the interior designer") on the right.

![Room Parterners](http://lh3.google.com/image/soham.g.sen/RcnDq4e60OI/AAAAAAA
AAN0/2k7fTz5WZFA/s288/DSCN2497.JPG)

That's all for now. I'm eager to finish painting the broad strokes so I can
discuss the really interesting experiences that make life in Delhi different
from my old life in America; those differences are all in the details, and
I'll start digging into them soon enough.

