
    ---
    layout: post
    title: "Super Bowl XLI over Coffee in Chanakyapuri"
    date: 2007-02-05
    categories: [delhiblog2007]
    ---

    I met up with some friends after work on Friday near the diplomatic
neighborhood of Delhi called Chanakyapuri. The place we went to happened to be
within short walking distance of the American Embassy, so I thought I'd have a
look. Well, when I got there I found that unlike taking a walk on Mass. Ave in
DC, there isn't a whole lot you can see of the embassies here. As with the
Australian embassy preceding it, the American diplomatic compound covering two
blocks was surrounded by a tremendously tall fence. Ten feet tall, made up of
imposing white sheet metal topped with pointed spears gave the sense of a
formidable fortress rather than the inviting embassies countenanced by flags
and statues on Mass. Ave. My attempts to get on tippy toe to have a look over
the fence promptly resulted in the assembling of three or four Indian security
officers and subsequent questions about my "suspicious behavior." I remembered
that here in Delhi, the first thing that people think of when they see me is
not "American." I got out of the situation by explaining I meant no harm, and
that I was simply an American trying to get a glimpse of my country's embassy.
My American accented English and my Virginia driver's license were sufficient
to save the day. I didn't know then that I would get to see the inside of the
fence soon enough. The next night, we had a housewarming party in my new
apartment. During the party, I met a number of American Expats, and as we
talked of the upcoming Super Bowl, I lamented to my new friends that it was
too bad I wouldn't be able to watch it this year; several invitations were
instantly procured of which the most interesting was the invitation to watch
the game in the Marine Barracks inside the American Embassy. I readily
accepted even though the idea of waking up at 3:30 in the morning to watch the
kickoff at 5 am (India is ten and a half hours ahead of EST) was a bit
daunting. Getting to Chanakyapuri was very much an adventure at that hour. (We
rely upon drivers here, and it turns out that they very much preferred to
sleep at that time instead of chauffeuring us to watch a football game; I
don't blame them!) But, arrive there we did, and then making it through the
rigorous security screening (my camera was not welcome) we went into living
room just a minute before Hester returned the kickoff for a touchdown. Things
were looking good for me, and things were looking good for the bears. Inside,
it felt like I'd just stepped back into America. The living room in the Marine
barracks with a wrap around leather sofa facing a flat panel television was
full of Americans and the buzz hair cuts made it obvious that many of them
were Marines. As has become wonderfully typical, I met a few more people my
age that have recently moved to Delhi from the US for various interesting
reasons.As at any good Super Bowl party, beer was available, but somehow beer
for breakfast just didn't sound right. Instead, for the first time ever, I
opted for coffee while watching the game. Much to everyone's dismay, the Air
Force Network didn't carry any of the commercials! So, even though the
experience was awesome, we had to watch military public service announcements
while you were watching the much lauded K Fed commercial -- I still haven't
seen that, so I can't say whether I'm grateful or not. By the time Prince was
dancing in the rain in Miami, we were served breakfast. At 300 /- (Rupees, $1
= ~43 /-) it was a very expensive meal. (My food for the entire week typically
runs 500 /- if I eat at home.) But, this was no ordinary breakfast (well
perhaps it was exactly that...) we had pancakes, french toast, syrup, eggs,
hash browns, sausages, and biscuits! We were happy enough to sing along with
Prince. Well almost. After the food we began to feel sleepy, but since the
game was still very interesting in the third quarter we kept cheering, but by
the time Grossman threw the second interception in the fourth quarter, things
were looking pretty bad for Da Bears, and the Bear's fans looked like they
were ready to go to bed. At a quarter to nine, Manning finally had his ring
and I said my goodbyes and headed out: Me to work from home after taking a
nap, and my friends to their offices. As I walked out I could see much more of
the inside of the compound because the sun had come up. There was a regulation
softball field to my left, and I was told that just around the corner there
was a bowling alley and a barber who could speak English. I badly need a
haircut, but I'm worried I won't be able to explain properly in Hindi what I
want done and the guy will totally screw it up requiring me to shave my head a
la 2003. But, I was too tired at this point, and so I grabbed a ride back home
and got back into bed as I typically do at home after watching the Super Bowl.

