
    ---
    layout: post
    title: "Cows and Camels and Elephants Oh My! (The Street)"
    date: 2007-02-27
    categories: [delhiblog2007]
    ---

    ![Yes an elephant!](http://lh3.google.com/image/soham.g.sen/RdlDzE99IUI/AAAAAA
AAAOE/o-o76-RDHuU/s288/DSCN2553.JPG)

I need to say something right at the onset: yes Virginia, there really are
cows (however emaciated) roaming aimless on the streets. Also, I have seen one
camel and four elephants. Having cleared that up, let me start at the
beginning. I've found that there are many places here in Delhi which allow you
to forget whether you are in America or India. The office for example (minus
the peons maybe) look rather like any other office anywhere - fax machines,
computers, desks, phones, etc. The same with restaurants or bars (or at least
the expensive ones). McDonalds looks exactly the same - I'm serious exactly(!)
- the same as any other I've seen, so does Pizza Hut. I should note that the
menus do differ: more spicy food, more vegetarian food, no beef or sausage.
The nightclubs I've visited so far could easily be in Dupont or some place in
Manhattan. But not the street. Step out of the restaurant, bar, or office and
you know for sure you're not in Kansas anymore. Like in nature, straight lines
and strict demarcations are a rarity even in urban India. Life of all
varieties animal, human mix in perpetual contradictions like currents in the
deep ocean: distinct yet intermixed. You'll find the rich amongst the poor
masses. You'll find sewage strewn along wide avenues housing the likes of five
star hotels and restaurants. You'll might hear sufi chants amid the din of
honking or the shouts of hawkers. You'll often smell awful things or pollution
but every now and then there are these lovely odoriferous gardens. If you're
brave enough, you can taste the pseudo-ambrosia in the form street snacks like
pani puri or kathi rolls; I say pseudo because this ambrosia might
subsequently kill you. (I hear that the better a street snack tastes... well
you know.)

![My friend Kunal hails us a cycle rickshaw](http://lh3.google.com/image/soham
.g.sen/Rbd4bxTQD6I/AAAAAAAAAHI/x5vpOzvRUYA/s288/DSCN2395.JPG)

Riding around in India, I first noticed the erratic traffic. There are lanes
on the road, but mostly they are for entertainment I think because nobody
seems to care much for them. I can only think of one example of how to
describe traffic here. Remember how it was between periods in middle school?
Kids would just run around in the halls trying to get to class in complete
chaos; every body trying to get ahead where-ever there is a crack of space.
Well that's how they drive here: everybody is playing tailback except on field
of buses, cars, auto rickshaws, taxis, cycle rickshaws, motorcycles, and
people. Crossing the street then is a bit like playing frogger -- if you're
too young to remember frogger, google it!

![The harrowing traffic!](http://lh4.google.com/image/soham.g.sen/Rbd5WBTQD7I/
AAAAAAAAAHc/VDtNeVxYHic/s288/DSCN2389.JPG)

Auto rickshaws - these green and gold, three wheeled contraptions with go kart
motors -- are my travel method of choice here in Delhi. My first week, I would
have these moments of panic sitting in my auto. You see, if you've driven in
America, you have developed a sense of when a car is too close or you've
drifted too far of your lane, etc. You then react immediately to your moment
of panic to (hopefully) correct for the problem. This developed sense will
pretty much give you a heart attack in India. Why? Because traffic here is
always too close, "lanes" are changed much too haphazardly, and a collision
seems constantly imminent. So until you reprogram your mind to a new set of
acceptable parameters of distance and space, you constantly have the panic
response. I resorted to reading so I could distract myself from looking
outside. Now, I've become inured to the situation. I walk amongst and sit in
traffic with complete disregard for the zaniness. It's really amazing how you
can get used to almost anything.

![This is an auto rickshaw](http://lh6.google.com/image/soham.g.sen/ReRyjE99I1
I/AAAAAAAAASg/_NHBE2xUfs0/s288/DSCN2554.JPG)

For all the lack of order, I must say that I have seen as many accidents as I
would expect. In fact here, when another car bumps into another -- not
crashes, just small bumps -- nothing happens. No waiting on the side of the
road for the cops to come and file a report; no calling the insurance company.
They just move on. Perhaps driving in this chaos explains why almost every
taxi and auto driver has the picture of a deity on his dashboard. I am quite
sure you need God's help to survive these roads. I take an auto to work every
morning now. Over time, I overcame my panic reaction and began to look outside
the window again and notice things that I had previously missed. Drivers,
despite everything, seemed to obey traffic lights; there were rules to the
madness. Dalrymple in his City of Djinns described it well when he described
the rules of Delhi driving by applying the old maxim "might makes right." That
translates to the rule that larger vehicles have the right of way over smaller
ones. And that infernal loud honking that seems to be everywhere, well that is
how one driver knows the presence of another. It has all started to make more
sense. I also notice now the innumerable children -- said to be organized by
professionals -- who come up to your auto while it's stopped at red lights
hawking everything from books to hair brushes; sometimes they just come at you
with children in their arms begging for change. The streets belong to everyone
and so belong to know one; the classic "[tragedy of the
commons](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tragedy_of_the_commons)." People treat
the streets like a giant trash can. Everything you don't want, you can just
leave on the street, then it ceases to be your problem and becomes somebody
else's: the government maybe. As such, I notice that people do everything on
the streets too. Certainly they litter, but people urinate along walls to
parks, they defecate near sewage ares, they bathe in filthy water in ponds and
rivers. My auto driver every so often will simply pull over every so often,
excuse himself saying "ek minut saab" (one minute sir) and relieve himself on
the nearest building. Out across the street from my balcony in CR Park's
Number 2 Market, I've seen people eating lunch on the street. Where is one to
go I suppose if one doesn't have a home?

![Man Eating on the Street](http://lh3.google.com/image/soham.g.sen/RcnKS4e60c
I/AAAAAAAAAMc/7WkjRJxfgrg/s288/DSCN2484.JPG)

As I said before however, the beauteous exists just besides the filth. I've
seen many gleaming E Class Mercedes' and 7 Series BMWs keeping the rich in a
comfortable, clean bubble from what's just outside. Taking them to the
glamorous restaurants and shopping malls that sport wares that any American
mall would be envious of: jewelery, designer clothes, high tech electronics;
it's all here. Along the streets are numerous little shops -- they have
religious names like Islam Motors or Ma Kali Electronics -- and they
specialize in one thing or the other: electronics or housewares or furniture.
(One even begins to miss one stop Walmart for all the running around necessary
to gather the basic items for a small party.) Indistinguishable from the
facades of these shops are schools or temples. Hotels, hospitals, and
universities are more easily identifiable. Yet all of this runs together
outside my auto window under a cover of dust in the sprawling, suburban South
Delhi landscape punctuated here and there by anachronistic Mughal era onion
shaped domes. I try to reconcile what I see with the streets of Washington,
but try as I might I am unable to conjure K Street while riding on a flyover
on Outer Ring Road -- the dust has permeated my memories.

